Adding changelog for v0.8.0-rc1 (#2244)
kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api: CHANGELOG.md

[#2277](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/issues/2277).

**Experimental Channel:** TCPRoute, TLSRoute, and UDPRoute are fully covered by
CEL validation. GRPCRoute still has some significant gaps in CEL validation that
will be covered in a future release.

#### Kubernetes 1.23 and 1.24
CEL validation is not supported, but Gateway API v0.8.0 CRDs can still be
installed. When you upgrade to Kubernetes 1.25+, the validation included in
these CRDs will automatically take effect. We recommend continuing to install
the validating webhook on these Kubernetes versions.

#### Kubernetes 1.22 and older
Unfortunately Gateway API v0.8.0 is not supported on these Kubernetes versions.
Gateway API v0.8.0 CRDs include CEL validation and cannot be installed on these
versions of Kubernetes. Note that Gateway API only commits to providing support
for the [5 most recent versions of
Kubernetes](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/versioning/#supported-versions),
and thus these versions are no longer supported by Gateway API.

### API Version Changes
As we prepare for a v1.0 release that will graduate Gateway, GatewayClass, and

> HTTPRoute to v1, we are continuing the process of moving away from v1alpha2 for
> resources that have graduated to v1beta1. The following changes are included in
> this release:

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
HTTPRoute to API version 1 (from v1beta1), we are continuing the process of moving away from
v1alpha2 for resources that have graduated to v1beta1. The following changes are included in
this release:
```

Author: Tried a variation of this in https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/pull/2244/commits/5103fd5dde7bca89f0d0d68825d60e0c54d84c24, does that make sense to you?

- [v0.1.0-rc2](#v010-rc2)
- [v0.1.0-rc1](#v010-rc1)

# v0.8.0-rc1

The working group expects that this release candidate is quite close to the final
v0.8.0 release. However, breaking API changes are still possible.

This release candidate is suitable for implementors, but the working group does
not recommend shipping products based on a release candidate API due to the
possibility of incompatible changes prior to the final release.

## Major Themes

### GAMMA (Service Mesh)
The GAMMA work for supporting service mesh use cases is _experimental_ in
`v0.8.0`. It is possible that it will change; we do not recommend it in
production at this point.

Since there will usually only be one mesh active in the cluster, the Gateway and
GatewayClass resources are not used for Service Mesh; instead, individual route
resources (such as HTTPRoute) are associated directly with Service resources,
permitting the mesh to manage traffic from any traffic directed to that Service
while preserving the role-oriented nature of the Gateway API.

In Gateway API v0.8.0, GAMMA support for service mesh is **experimental**. We
encourage working with it and providing feedback, but you **must** be prepared

> for changes in the GAMMA APIs.

Author: @keithmattix @kflynn @howardjohn could use some help on this section if any of you have ideas.

> for changes in the GAMMA APIs.

Reviewer 2: Maybe

```
Service mesh support per the GAMMA initiative has moved to **experimental** in
`v0.8.0`. As an experimental API, **it is still possible that this will
change**; the working group does not recommend shipping products based on any
experimental API.

When using the Gateway API to configure a service mesh, the Gateway and
GatewayClass resources are not used (as there will typically only be one mesh
in the cluster) and, instead, individual route resources are associated
directly with Service resources. This permits configuring mesh routing while
preserving the Gateway API's overall semantics.

We encourage service mesh implementers and users to try this new support and
we welcome feedback! Once again, though, the working group does not recommend
shipping products based on this or any other experimental API. due to the
possibility of incompatible changes prior to the final release.
```

??

Reviewer 3: SGTM, nice.

Author: Updated, thanks @kflynn!

from Gateway API releases. Depending on the version of Kubernetes you're using,
this will mean different things.

#### Kubernetes 1.25+
CEL validation is fully supported. Once you install Gateway API v0.8.0 CRDs, you
can safely uninstall the validating webhook. Note: If you did not previously
have the webhook installed in your cluster, this validation may catch problems
that previously had not been.

#### Kubernetes 1.23 and 1.24
CEL validation is not supported, but Gateway API v0.8.0 CRDs can still be
installed. When you upgrade to Kubernetes 1.25+, the validation included in
these CRDs will automatically take effect. We recommend continuing to install
the validating webhook on these Kubernetes versions.

#### Kubernetes 1.22 and older
Unfortunately Gateway API v0.8.0 is not supported on these Kubernetes versions.
Gateway API v0.8.0 CRDs include CEL validation and cannot be installed on these
versions of Kubernetes. Note that Gateway API only commits to providing support
for the [5 most recent versions of
Kubernetes](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/versioning/#supported-versions),
and thus these versions are no longer supported by Gateway API.

> ### Routability (Experimental)

Reviewer 3: Hasn't this been removed?

Author: Updated, thanks!

- Users and implementations that were reading or writing from v1alpha2 of
  ReferenceGrant SHOULD upgrade to use v1beta1.

For more information, refer to
[#2069](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/pull/2069).

## Other Changes

### Status
- Add IncompatibleFilters reason for implementations to specify when a route is
  invalid due to an invalid combination of route filters. (#2150, @sunjayBhatia)

### Spec Clarifications

- HTTPRoute Method matching precedence has been clarified (#2054,
  @gauravkghildiyal)
- Clarify that implementations must not modify HTTP Host header. Adds
  specificity alongside spec that port in Host header must be ignored when
  matching on host. (#2092, @sunjayBhatia)
- Fix typo: rename GatewaReasonUnsupportedAddress ->
  GatewayReasonUnsupportedAddress (#2149, @panslava)
- HTTPRoute: Clarified that exact path matches are truly exact, both trailing
  slashes and capitalization are meaningful. (#2055, @robscott)
- Implementations MUST ignore any port value specified in the HTTP Host header
  while performing a match against HTTPRoute.Hostnames (#1980,
  @gauravkghildiyal)

### Conformance

> - Add conformance tests for Gateway Routability (#2171, @dprotaso)

Reviewer 3: Reverted as well, I think.

Author: Updated, thanks!
